welcome back ladies and gentlemen losela
montgomery here with part two of this
brief series where we
are navigating the timeline of china
history
pausing here and there to note some of
the more outrageous takeovers of the
imperial government by eunuchs
as i mentioned last time eunuch
devastation was particularly noteworthy
in the han
tang and ming dynasties last time after
a brief look at the qin dynasty villain
chalco and his whole
cover-up of the death of the first qin
emperor
and subsequent power grab and then we
jumped ahead to the eastern han
the tail end the dynasty was finally put
out of its misery in 220 ce but
by as early as the 150s the eunuchs had
been able to take advantage
of the turn of events for bad emperors
in a row
to effectively take over power and set
themselves up
along with their relatives and other
allies into positions of power
inside and outside the palace
and the eunuch's reputation for
ruthlessness that knew no bounds
was on ruinous display for everyone to
see
and for history to record with the ten
attendants
the sher chang shirt of eastern
han emperor ling's time they sort of
stood out
as a warning for future posterity to
make every effort to draw a wall of
separation
between governing the palace and
governing the state
and everyone should stay on their side
of the wall
well we ended last time with the bloody
defeat of the eunuchs who were wiped out
by the warlord
and major character from romance of the
three kingdoms yenshaw
and others history records a dramatic
end
to the rule of the ten attendants and as
i just said they became the examples for
future rulers to avoid at all costs
it sure is tempting to wander off and
get lost in those magical decades
between the fall of the hun
and the end of the three kingdoms if you
ever wanted to hear the whole story
let me again recommend mr john jews
three kingdoms podcast
he also has the water margin podcast
outlaws of the marsh
go check those out below by blow
narration
and explanation of everything three
kingdoms with free insight
links at the show notes my mission here
is really to focus on the headlines
eunuchs and the han
tang and ming one noteworthy thing
i don't know if they just got tired of
doing it or what the direct causes were
but
castrating convicts and captured
soldiers was
outlawed during the sway dynasty others
too had outlawed castration of prisoners
the western way as well you might
remember them
prior to the sway the western way were
the partial masters of northern china
535-557 during the
southern and northern dynasties period
we in our day would no doubt find a
penalty as castration
utterly barbaric well maybe as the
centuries passed other people thought so
too but the main point here is that with
this
pool of castrated males being taken out
of the supply chain
that didn't mean demand for eunuchs was
any less great
this is when the notion of getting into
the business became a popular option to
consider for those with
few prospects but seeking some upward
mobility nonetheless
now it starts to become much more common
than before
you know i've heard arguments about
which period the eunuchs were more out
of control
the tongue or the ming many places on
the web
you'll hear called out as the worst of
the worst
and we'll get to him he he was indeed
destructive you can say that
he was pretty bad but was he the worst
uh some of these
biggest names sort of become characters
of their historic selves and
popular chinese history though eunuchs
never went out of style
between the third and sixth centuries
there were no
marquee incidents or upheavals on a
national scale
attributed to any repercussions of
eunuchs seizing power
and driving any kingdom or dynasty off
the rails
as for the tang dynasty besides the
devastation of the anushan or
unsure rebellion of 755-763
a high degree of credit can be given to
the eunuchs beginning with
shenzhong himself aka emperor ming of
tongue
those two factors on lushan and the
eunuchs
that was more than enough to bring down
the dynasty
shenzhong's kayun era from 713 to 756
was one of the greatest
times in the whole tongue dynasty
rivaling tide zones reign at the
beginning
and not learning any lessons from han
emperor juan
who we looked at last time shenzhen
welcomed eunuchs into the governing side
of the royal business there were a bunch
of noteworthy eunuchs who served a
particular emperor and themselves of
course and i'm not going to name
everyone we'd be here all day there were
certain
eunuchs whose story was unique and went
hand in hand with
one single emperor there were also a few
who served multiple emperors
well i mentioned the unsure rebellion if
there was ever a turning point in the
fortunes of the great tang
dynasty this upheaval and the widespread
havoc
it caused led to the deaths of
millions on the one hand it was a
violent and horrible time
but on the other hand lepai doofu and
wang wei were all living so
that couldn't have been all bad the
shenzhong emperor
the eunuch associated with his reign was
gaulisher gao
i cut his teeth under the shenzong
emperor's grand uzza 10
and worked his way up the eunuch ladder
and he had been
most instrumental in helping to pave the
way
for lilongji in 713 to outmaneuver his
father the retired raid zong emperor
thanks in large part to gaulisher's
loyalty and efficiency
shenzhong was able to gain full power in
the palace
and ruled without his father always
getting in the way
gaulisher was his right hand going way
back and had earned all the respect
accorded him by the emperor
and his family and though many later on
in history asked why don't you have to
go and do all that shenzhen made gauly
sure a general
of the imperial guards there wasn't a
document or message
destined for the emperor that didn't go
through galisher's hands
first shenzhong left everything to him
it had been gaudly sher who helped to
make it easy for shenzhong
to enjoy the beauty and wiles of
yankweifei
later on it will be gauly sure who
escorts this
favorite consort of the emperor one of
the four beauties of
china to her death in the fateful year
of 756
gaulisher's loyalty to shenzhong was
unquestioned
and i hate to spoil things but he
doesn't make any of the top 10 lists of
the worst eunuchs of all time
but he did steal a lot of wealth and got
his hands on the levers of power both in
the government and the military
and with the precedence established
during his time at the top
he made it easy for the next powerful
eunuch
to rise to great heights and really do
some damage
that next powerful eunuch was lifu guar
just as gaul lee sure had been so
instrumental in shenzhen's rise to the
top
so it was with lee fugua and shenzhong's
son
and successor emperor sutong li fugua
he was emperor sutong's guy shanzong
made the dangerous move to allow his
chief eunuch to have some power and
access to authority
outside of the palace and gauly sure's
abuse of this trust
doesn't rank very high as eunuch
outrageousness went
but lee fugua that's a completely
different kettle of fish and he checked
all the boxes as far as how bad
a unit can get by the way he made
kaldisha's last years
as miserable as he could those two were
not friends and allies and lee fugua
never hesitated to fill suzong's head
with notions about his father
the former emperor shenzhong and gauly
sure
always being up to no good so in short
he was a miscreant and he had the
perfect master in the sutong emperor who
was only too happy to
shower him with honorary titles and
surrender almost all his power and
authority to
lifu guar who in turn was only too happy
to accept it
affairs of state control of the treasury
anything that had to do with the emperor
including all communication everything
went through lee fugua
if you wanted an audience with emperor's
suit zone you had to go through lee
fugua
he regularly made decisions in the
emperor's name and in general
until the end of suzong's reign in 762
famously a mere 13 days after the
passing of his father
the shanzong emperor you could say lee
fugua he
controlled everything and ran a classic
eunuch dictatorial reign of terror in
the palace
and for all those in the government he
was
feared and his power was absolute
and like it was in every case lee fugue
was able to achieve what he did
thanks to the emperor if you couldn't
have a child or infant on the throne at
least have a dim-witted one
i won't call the suzong emperor that but
he never relented in his backing of lee
fugua
and without fail allowed him to carry
out all the abuses he did
there was a close call in 759 with
one of sudzong's more upright officials
bringing him to his senses about lee
fugua but in a
classic theme that keeps repeating
itself throughout the centuries and even
into modern history
someone leaked word to the bad guy and
evil ended up prevailing
that's one of the oldest themes in
chinese ancient history going back to
chu yan
and the warring states period he was the
upright official pointing out problems
and mistakes to the king
and having the whole thing backfire on
him
lee fugua had an ally in the emperor's
inner circle
namely the empress she had been his
closest and most powerful friend in the
palace
and both lifu gua and miss empress chang
sort of rose up together and proved
valuable to each other at key times
that is until emperor suzong died
suddenly and they
both turned on each other and lifu guar
he triumphed in that uh political
struggle and as it always was
not only was empress zhang murdered lee
fugua went after all her allies as well
and after the new emperor dai zhong
settled on his throne
he conspired with lee fought's enemies
in the palace and in the military of
which there were many
and planned a takedown and after
sudzong's passing and at the dawn of
daitong's reign
lee fugua had carried out terrible
abuses of power
with impunity and with this feeling of
invincibility
he got taken down several notches
daitong
backed by his political allies issued an
edict that
essentially defanged lee fugua and
stripped him of all his power and
authority
and like michael did with fredo and the
godfather
dietzong sent him away with honors
and later on sent an assassin who
murdered him
payback for empress zhang that was in
762.
the following year in 763 the unluchan
rebellion which had been playing in the
background all this time
finally came to an end the seeds had
already been planted for the demise of
the tang dynasty with all the warlords
who helped quell the rebellion and were
now firmly entrenched in their power
bases
the rebellion may have ended but that
didn't mean these warlords were going to
follow the duke of joe's example and
surrender their power back to the center
now was the time to wait and see what
happened next
the daitong emperor too why should he be
any different
he got to be the new emperor thanks to a
little help from his friends
namely eunuchs and chun and yucha
un from now until the very end
every tongue emperor will have one or
two eunuchs riding on their coattails in
the palace
and beyond chongya and john he made an
early exit from the reign of died song
thanks to some poor military advice that
forced the emperor to have to
abandon the palace in chiang on and
escape to
san manchia and henan to the east
chengyan john was forced to give up all
the riches he had hoarded and then by
the emperor's orders
was exiled where he died shortly
thereafter
and this is where yucha un stepped in
and filled the eunuch power vacuum
he too reached that stage where he was
able to lord it over
everyone including the emperor sometimes
so
arrogant had he become with all his
power wealth and
privileges but emperor daitong
ended up putting an end to yucha on in
770.
he personally signed his death warrant
and after the deed was done
well he claimed you had committed
suicide in any case
that was it for you chow un the daitong
emperor hung in there till 7 79
and not for lack of trying he couldn't
reign in the provinces
they were lost and he was starting to
look like some late eastern joe dynasty
king with powers that didn't stretch
very far
you know compared to tongue emperors of
years past
next up was the dudzong emperor and he
too he made a noble effort to
hold everything together but he didn't
have any luck either
his big mistake was handing over control
of the imperial guard
to his two eunuchs douwen chang and
hoshin
the imperial guard or chancellor was the
emperor's personal army
nobody out trumped them and in 786 he
handed control of this force to his
eunuchs
and then expanded their reach to include
the whole military
dudson made them unique protectors of
the army
and their hold over the capital and
surrounding areas became
absolute no eunuchs up until that point
had held so much military power in their
hands
the eunuchs used their control of the
shunsa
army to carry out strong-arm tactics to
shake down not only officials but
the common people as well the eunuchs in
power
do-wen chang and hoshin ming were
remembered most of all
for carrying out acts of extortion
against many political targets
lives were ruined and fortunes
confiscated and this
money grab during the 790s the datsung
emperor
just sat back and let it all happen and
why not
these eunuchs were loyal to him acted as
his spies
did his bidding and protected him
against the officials
who he never trusted for his last 10
years as emperor
dudson withdrew from day-to-day affairs
became an absentee emperor
and his eunuchs gladly picked up the
slack he allowed them to do all the
smashing and grabbing they were doing
as his agents the tale wasn't wagging
the dog just yet
but dudson will be the last tongue
emperor who exercises some modicum of
control over his eunuchs
and once he died in 805 from a similar
kind of death as the
first qin emperor death by alchemy
palace eunuchs grabbed hold of all the
real power in the capital and over the
next
century they rode the tang dynasty
all the way into the ground by now
eunuchs had been permitted to adopt
other eunuchs
now they couldn't leave all their wealth
and power to any family ears
their castration saw to that but now
in this lake part of the tongue they
were allowed to formally adopt younger
eunuchs who they groomed as their own
family and who
well after the older eunuch's passing
couldn't hear it as well
and positions of power and it was during
dudson's time this matter of adoption
and eunuchs heading up entire families
was permitted
and though it probably wasn't like your
family in mind it was a very complex
thing it became
part of the eunuch culture so 805 was
one of those
red letter years in chinese imperial
history
the death of an emperor was always a
golden opportunity for something violent
or
untoward to happen usually in the form
of some succession struggle or crisis
wherever there were eunuchs there was
always some opposing faction
usually court officials who like the
democrats and republicans of american
politics
they always try to outmaneuver the other
no matter the cost to the nation
or damage to the traditional power
structure
and with the passing of dudson this was
on full display
his ear the crown prince had suffered a
debilitating stroke
but despite his infirmity he was still
made the next emperor
though he won't last long and this new
emperor shuenseong
was not the eunuch's choice and after
six months
he died or was killed the eunuch saw
that and the next tongue emperor was
their guy
and this was the shenzhong emperor one
of his own eunuchs
is going to end up killing him but
shenzhong he gets most of the blame for
allowing the eunuchs to settle in and
eventually control the
entire power structure of the tongue and
they did this to such an extent that in
order to get rid of the eunuchs
well you would have to just burn down
the whole dynasty to the ground
what was left of it and start all over
the tang shentong emperor like all his
predecessors going back to shenzhong and
kaulisher
he had his own eunuch as well who was
closely associated with his reign that
lasted 805 to 8
20. and this was tu tu changsue
yeah i know strange sounding name no one
knows how we got that
tutu aside from sharing the same
sounding surname as the
once archbishop of cape town was perhaps
of shin bay origin
tu tu changsui nothing too egregious
about his actions during shenzhen's time
except to say he tried to influence
events
upon the death of shenzhong and 820 he
wasn't successful in getting his choice
on the throne
and his political maneuverings ended up
costing him his
life and just as we count down the years
of a dynasty by observing the acts of
each emperor
so it was in the late tongue with
notable eunuchs
and next up was wang chang now he had
some staying power
lasting through the reigns of xiangtong
mutong jingdong and wenzong
wang zhou chong had been involved in the
killing of tutuchangsway
following the death of shenzhong in 820.
the eunuchs
often had no qualms about eating their
own eunuchs murdering eunuchs was
something often happening while all this
madness was going on in the dying
decades of the dynasty
mutung was another wastrel of an emperor
more in love with the perks of the job
than the actual job itself
commanders out in the surrounding
provinces kept up the long-running
struggle between the center and
themselves
his father emperor shenzhong had been
somewhat successful
in reigning in these independent minded
regional
military governors or jetushers
but with mutong in charge once again the
center's power of gravity dissipated
and the tongue dynasty once again found
itself in a death spiral
and these final 83 years following
mutung's death in 824
were starting to look familiar to those
final decades of the han
one bad emperor after the next a steady
degradation of the power center all that
was needed to make sure this dynasty
never recovered was some
mass rebellion and they got that later
on in the form of the huangchang
rebellion
874-8 let's first look at another
example how
when a focused and concerted effort to
rid the eunuchs of any and all executive
and military authority was foiled
the eunuchs would bounce back stronger
and more wicked than ever before
the jingzong emperor well he never made
it out of his teens before he was
assassinated in 827
wang zhou chang kept things from
completely unraveling but he and his
eunuch allies kept all
decision-making powers in their hands
fighting off anyone who tried to get in
the way
and the tang jinxing emperor he had been
another moodsong was allergic to work
and between his immaturity and youth
it was easy meat for the eunuchs while
this young emperor was busy having a
great time
the eunuchs in charge held him in the
palm of their hands
and in his name engaged in all manners
of struggles with
anyone trying to silence them or push
them back into the inner palace where
they belonged
finally in 827 this fun-loving jingtong
emperor was murdered by a couple eunuchs
and what followed was another classic
power struggle between two factions
wang cho chang was still directing the
show at this point
and the last royal standing who the
eunuchs chose
became emperor wenzong the jingtong
emperor's kid brother
wenzong he reigned 827-840
long enough to do plenty of damage to
the already beyond repair tang dynasty
he at least had the sense to try and
make a concerted effort
in 835 to get rid of the eunuchs the
plan
when it was hatched called for wang zhou
chang's forced suicide on charges laid
against him and then
when all the most important eunuchs came
for the funeral ceremony
the plan was essentially to carry out a
turkey shoot and just murder them all at
once
and this whole plan climaxed on december
14th
8 35 the sweet dew or
ganlu incident went down at the palace
in cheng on
and once again like a movie plot that
keeps repeating itself in different
films
emperor wenzong joined together with his
most loyal officials who had served his
father as well
and together they plotted to strike
against the eunuchs and rest all this
power from them and
eliminate the most powerful leaders who
were mainly two eunuchs
chilean and you hung chur these two
were instrumental in marshaling the
eunuch forces as well as the
shunsa armies under their control to
foil the plans of emperor wenzong and
his officials
to cut them off at the knees and removed
show you
and others from such powerful positions
namely by killing them
but they found out as i said it was as
if
you could never keep a secret from a
eunuch and the backlash
against the emperor and his officials
following this incident
was deadly and thorough the three
chancellors who worked with wenzong most
closely in this conspiracy
got the old yao john punishment yao
means your waste and john means to slay
chop or cut no need to go into any more
detail than that this is a family
program
and after these loyal officials had
their yao john
they were decapitated and had their
heads displayed at a conspicuous
location
for all to see and the murder that
followed and white terror
directed against anyone and everyone
related to all these plotters
allies of plotters their families and
any other minnow who got caught up in
that net
was something no one who lived through
it would ever forget
well this carnage at the top most levels
of power carried well into 836 so if we
officially peg
the fall of the tongue in 907 to the
time when julen killed emperor i
they were now 71 years remaining
these were not very good years for the
dynasty or for all of northern china
and it would stay that way until 9 60
when
xiao quang yin founded the song dynasty
and at least until the end of the tongue
the eunuchs put every last emperor on
the throne and didn't let anyone get
close to having any say in the decision
of the moment and after this ganlu
incident of december 835
no one ever messed with them again not
the tang dynasty at least
the remaining emperors from 840 to 888
utong shenzhong zhong and shidzong
they may have dreamed about pushing back
against the eunuchs surrounding them day
and night but
they knew better and then came emperor
jiaozong
uh we're almost at the very end 888 to
900.
now when i say no one ever tried any
deadly pushback against the eunuchs i
mean
from inside the capital and certainly
from inside ground zero in the palace
but one day one of chao tsung's
ministers told him
how about inviting one or two of his uh
warlord acquaintances from outside the
capital to come in
and do the dirty work for them and this
is how juwen
who i just mentioned a little bit ago
that's how he entered the picture
he's also known as zhu chen chong and
not to skip ahead but
once he had the last tongue the emperor
snuffed out he went and founded his own
later liang dynasty the first of the
five
northern dynasties sandwiched in between
the tang and the song
then towards the end of 902 juwon
in collusion with a host of other
military leaders big and small
most prominently perhaps lee mao chun a
shanxi warlord headed in the direction
of the tongue capital and carried
out a rather prodigious slaughter of all
the eunuchs who had been lording it over
everyone at the town court for
so long now limaujan was also one of
those
former jedushers who became a warlord he
later on went on to found the state of
chi
located around the region that was his
power base parts of shanxi
gansu and sichuan like everything about
the five dynasties and ten kingdoms
period that followed
nothing was terribly long-lasting
so you be the judge do you think the
eunuchs brought down the tongue
starting from the latter part of
shenzhong's reign with gaulisher
that's when they started to become the
problem they ultimately became
so next episode the one you've all been
waiting for
we'll first take a look at the song
dynasty
now those guys saw what happened in the
tongue and they swore not to let matters
get out of hand with their eunuchs so
the song
doesn't have nearly the action or double
crossing that
the history of the eunuchs had during
the late han or
tong therefore that means we'll get to
the ming dynasty that much faster and if
you think it was
bad in the tongue with the eunuchs wait
till the ming
until then this here's laszlo montgomery
signing off on a lovely los
angeles day here once more i humbly
enjoying you too
head over to patreon.com
history podcast and consider supporting
this decade-long effort of mine
three bucks a month doesn't seem like
much but that'll allow me to keep this
chp
program going at least another couple
weeks
so until that time i'll be sitting in
this rocking chair waiting for you
and with your great support we'll
perhaps
meet again for another exciting episode
of the china history podcast take care
everyone